# Lesson plan

- Date: 20240827
- Teacher: Richel
- Course: intro to UPPMAX day 1

## Learning objectives

Here I collected all the learning objectives from the original course:

- Let's step up and have an overview of SNIC
- This is a short introduction in how to reach the calculation nodes
- Wednesday afternoon is wedded to this topic!
- We'll get an overview of UPPMAX and SNIC/NAISS and how a computer cluster works
- Let's recap and go a little deeper into the organization of NAISS/UPPMAX
- Let's step up and have an overview of NAISS
- We'll relate our login session to the specific "area" in the cluster.
- We'll go through platform specific (Mac/Linux/Windows) ways to log in to UPPMAX.
- We'll briefly get an overview of Linux
    - How the command line works
    - Some text editors
    - Things to be aware of
- Let's dig into the most important BASH commands
- We'll do a type-along session
- Get overview of UPPMAX and NAISS
- Work with your files in a LINUX environment
- Learn to use the UPPMAX resources in a good way
- Learn the basics in the Python programming language
- Let's recap and go a little further into the UPPMAX hardware!
- We'll briefly get an overview of kinds of sensitive data
- ... and the **Bianca** system

I will use these as a starting point.

## My goals

- Use the cluster guides of the UPPMAX documentation as much as possible:
    - No duplicate information
    - Ensures UPPMAX documentation is of high quality,
      as it is actually used in teaching
- Use Linux info from other source, such as <https://linuxjourney.com>

## Method

I started with the course content of <https://github.com/UPPMAX/uppmax_intro>
and then shuffled it around.

Starting from the connectivist theory of learning,
I decided to do visual things first (among others, file transfer
using FileZilla),
then using the terminal (among others, file transfer using scp)
and only then discuss theory about more theoretical things (such
as: NAISS, Bianca).

Working on this course puts requirements on the UPPMAX documentation
too, as this is the course materials I will be using.

## Progress

I've molded the original course content in what it was now. 
Now for the scheduling: I am going to take the time
I needed for all exercises, multiply that times 3,
then see how full the schedule is.


*Session*               |*My time (mins, rounded up)* 
------------------------|----------------------------
*Basic use visual tools*|.
login                   |6
login_remote_desktop    |5
use_remote_desktop      |12
file_transfer_filezilla |7
*Basic use terminal*    |.
login_ssh               |7
use_terminal            |16
file_transfer_scp       |6
*Real work*             |.
modules                 |9
scripts                 |8
job_scheduler           |17
interactive             |7
*Rest*                  |.
use_ide                 |-
naiss                   |-
clusters                |-
courses                 |-
*Total*                 |100

This fits perfectly, as I have 300 mins of teaching! I was right to ignore the
misc things! Now, let's break it down in a schedule:

*Session*               |*Time needed (mins, rounded up)*|*Progress when done (%)*
------------------------|--------------------------------|------------------------
*Basic use visual tools*|.                               |*30*
login                   |18                              |6 
login_remote_desktop    |15                              |11 
use_remote_desktop      |36                              |23 
file_transfer_filezilla |21                              |30 
*Basic use terminal*    |.                               |*59*
login_ssh               |21                              |37 
use_terminal            |48                              |53 
file_transfer_scp       |18                              |59 
*Real work*             |.                               |*100*
modules                 |27                              |68 
scripts                 |24                              |76 
job_scheduler           |51                              |93 
interactive             |21                              |100

It seems to fit nicely in blocks of 2.
